# My Data Projects

I have been in this Data Analytics career since June 2014, however, I started working with data way earlier than that. In 1987, I did my summer project as a college sophomore in a clinical lab counting the numbers of test results and grouping them based on bacterial types. The lab workers threw me pieces of paper with diagnoses written on them for me to count. I was tired of the manual work and thought of my PC at home loaded with dBaseII, a primitive database software. I was able to enter the test results into dBaseII and run the reports! That was my first taste of data analysis.

Even though I enjoyed writing code in Pascal and using dBaseII, I loved biology more at the time and went to graduate school. I produced my own data and performed statistical analyses using Excel and SPSS for years. I witnessed the inception of bioinformatics and the release of human genome sequences in 2000 to 2003, and sensed that the era of big data finally descended on us in the biology field. It took me quite a while to change career, but my life experiences and constant learning had helped me to tackle the obstacles along the way.

My career path has been multifaceted: I am a biologist/IT worker who has broad interests including history and social sciences. I have been successfully handling all kinds of data, ranging from transactions, transportation logistics, social networks, gaming (Xbox), and advertisement. My determination and insatiate appetite of learning has carried me to this far. Here, I would like to showcase my personal projects which reflect my broad interests and my ability to execute a variety of data and analytical techniques. 
