# MSNBC Anonymous Web Data Analysis and Visualization Using Network Science

Data downloaded from <https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/MSNBC.com+Anonymous+Web+Data>

Introduction:
I worked in the Xbox Division at Microsoft for three years. Xbox in essence is a fancy web browser in a box, so I am experienced in  organizing and analyzing web data. Historically, MSNBC news network was established as a partnership of NBC and Microsoft, and this data was collected by Microsoft Research Division in 1999. It was originally used for clustering analysis and was not presented in the format of modern web data. I enjoyed the unique challenge to organize it to unearth multiple KPIs. During the course of development, I also realized that this data can be visualized in weighted networks.

Procedures:
I have implemented two Jupyter notebooks for this project:

1. MSNBC Web - Data Processing.ipynb: 
The raw dataset contained anonymous user navigation patterns in 17 "page categories" of the MSNBC web pages. It required serious data engineering to reveal meaningful information. I was able to generate multiple metrics such as "Visits per Category", "Visits per Category per User", and "First Visited Category per User". In network theory, the categories could be viewed as "nodes" with users navigated among them. In order to better describe how users browsed from one category to the next one, I created "Edge Path" metric. The "weight" of each node was calculated as the frequencies of users landed on the given category. By the same token, the frequencies that users navigated on a given edge path was the weight of the edge path.

2. MSNBC Web - Data Analysis.ipynb: 
Please note that this notebook required the data files from the Data Processing notebook. Due to the large sizes of the resulting data files produced from the first notebook, I was unable to include the data files in the GitHub repo. Please run the first notebook in order to see my network analysis in the second one. In this notebook, I visualized the relationships of the "Edge Path" vs "Edge Path Weight", and "Node" vs "Node Weight". Among the 17 nodes, "frontpage" was the most accessed category as it was served as the MSNBC web portal, and it was also the top 1 first visited category for users. Using the NetworkX package in Anaconda, all the information (nodes, edge paths, node weights, edge weights) were incorporated in network objects for plotting network weighted graphs, either undirected or directed, in spring or circular layouts. Major network parameters such as hub(centrality), degree distribution, and connected components were calculated and visualized.

Summary:
Network analysis is a great way to explore complex systems such as Internet browsing patterns, social network behaviors, and contagion spreads based on the discipline of network science. I was able to show that the distribution of "Edge Path Weights" had a power law relationship, which correlated well with previous findings that WWW linked structure behaviors. I went further to visualize all the KPIs created during the data engineering process in these beautiful network graphs: The sizes of the nodes represented the frequencies visited by users, and the thickness of the "edges" corresponded to the user traffic between nodes. The hub (centrality) was "frontpage", the most frequently visited node and the "launch pad" to other nodes in the directed graph. Within the 17 nodes, there were a few rarely visited categories with low "degrees" based on user traffic, which explained why the degree distribution histogram was right skewed. I was able to graph the connected components alongside the degree distribution histogram. The connected component analysis showed that in the MSNBC data, all the nodes were connected with edges, and the network was considered as "complete graph". Overall, this has been a very exciting project for me to unleash and witness the power of network analysis. 

